welcome to the man of recaps this is the
flash season five
at the end of last season a mysterious
new girl showed up turns out she is
nora west allen yes barry and iris's
daughter from the future
as far as the time travel shenanigans go
on the show it's pretty standard stuff
yes nora is also a speedster goes by the
name xs which doesn't really stand for
anything now we've known since the very
beginning of season 1 the future article
that reads flash disappears in crisis
but nora has bad news the flash never
comes back
yes nora grew up without her father
that's why she came back to the past to
hang out with her dad she does not want
to hang out with her mom though turns
out future iris put a chip in her to
suppress her powers to keep her safe
this causes an annoying amount of boring
drama throughout the first half of the
season before she realizes her mom's
pretty cool and forgives her their happy
family again so norah's real cute and
spunky she's excited to get out there as
success and fight crime with the flash
but mostly she's a distraction
pretty soon though barry gets her
trained up and she's capturing
meta-human villains but what's this oh
this one is killed this new villain is
called cicada because of the rattling
sound his breathing mask makes he
controls a wicked lightning bolt-shaped
knife that dampens meta-human powers and
without their powers team flash is
useless against him now being from the
future nora knows about cicada but he's
not supposed to arrive yet her presence
here has altered the timeline but even
more troubling cicada is one of the most
infamous villains because he is never
caught
so to help them catch this kill or team
flash needs a harrison wells there's
many in the multiverse
that aren't helpful right now but one of
them is a master detective in fact he
goes by his middle name
sherlock this is sherlock wells look
surely sherlock l-o-q-u-e
shall lock in french they soon discover
that on the night of the enlightenment
shards from dubose satellite hit various
pieces of technology infusing them with
dark matter turning them into meta tech
and so once again the various villains
of the week were accidentally created by
team flash this is where cicadas dagger
came from two that night he and his
niece got blown up the dagger landed in
his chest making him a medium infused
with it his niece grace got hit too
she's in a coma now and he's vowed to
kill all meta-humans to take vengeance
now remember last season the thinker
took away caitlyn snow's killer frost
powers and turns out her powers didn't
come from the particle accelerator
explosion killer frost has been a part
of her since childhood
long story short caitlyn tracks down her
father who she thought was dead but was
actually just trapped in this lab for 20
years she was dying of a deadly disease
but managed to cure himself but turns
out that cure is ice powers to make sure
she never got sick he gave that cure to
caitlin when she was a kid and that's
where killer frost came from turns out
though he also has an evil icy split
personality and this one unfortunately
has taken full control of them so to
save her friends caitlyn's gotta oh ice
blast
yeah killer frost is back turns out the
thinker didn't take away her powers he
just like gave her a mental block this
is super convenient because killer frost
powers don't come from dark matter the
dagger doesn't dampen them she can fight
cicada he still manages to escape though
in fact over the course of the season
barry fights cicada like a million times
but he always gets away
in the meantime romance blooms when
sherlock falls for this cute librarian
turns out though he's fallen for her
seven times before
yes all of his ex-wives are this woman's
doppelgangers from various earths he has
a type cisco ramone spends the first
half of the season moping over his
recent breakup with gypsy but ralph
dibny is here to help in fact he's
written the book of ralph all about how
to get over your ex
in the end though the best way is to
meet someone new it's this cute
photographer bartender camilla they hit
it off and by the end of the season
they're going steady and of course one
day gorilla grodd is back here to
conquer central city again
this time to stop them they gotta bring
in another giant animal it's king shark
yes it's an epic monster battle in the
end king shark wins and he's kind of a
good guy now meanwhile cicada is still
out there killing metahumans eventually
cisco and caitlyn develop a meta-human
cure that will permanently take
someone's powers away
barry wants to just stab cicada with it
but caitlyn makes him promise it has to
be consensual so the flash offers to
takes a kid his powers away which at
first he is not interested in sort of
makes a kid a trusted berry pulls out
his go-to move and reveals his secret
identity it's like yeah
everyone knows at this point and when
barry points out that saketa and his
niece are technically metahumans
themselves he realizes the irony of his
vendetta so he agrees to take them at a
human cure
but who's this busting in it's another
cicada this one's got two knives so
they're double trouble turns out
it is his grown-up niece grace from the
future she's like hey uncle i came back
from the future to help continue our
mission kill all meta-humans but he's
like yo gracie i was wrong this isn't
the life i want for you
but oh she kills him she is too far gone
now this whole time sherlock has been
suspicious of nora she has a journal
with strange simple writing in it the
same strange symbols barry was writing
when he came out of the speed force
indeed this whole time she's been
communicating
with someone in the future and
eventually sherlock discovers her secret
it is none other than the reverse flash
eobard
thon for complicated time travel reasons
still alive and wearing the face of
paris and wells we get a flashback to
nora's life as a csi in the future when
a new speedster villain godspeed arrives
he hits nora with a lightning bolt that
destroys her power dampener and she
discovers she's got super speed with no
one else to turn to she goes to see thon
who becomes her speedster coach much
like he was for barry back in the day
they became kind of friends he taught
her how to time travel so she could go
meet her dad and later when she learned
thon killed her grandma he's like hey i
feel bad about that i'm a changed man
now but barry allen doesn't want to hear
it he's super mad at nora and leaves her
stranded in the future
obviously though the sensor running
right back into thon's arms and he
teaches her how to time travel using the
negative speed force that's how your
eyes glow red and makes kind of evil
excess puts on a villain outfit and goes
rogue for a day but the other bad guys
betray her because they're bad guys so
she and her dad have a heart to heart
they make up and she's a good guy again
now the team found a mirror gun the only
thing that would destroy cicadas dagger
first though caitlyn's evil ice dad is
out there stealing some other science
thing he and killer frost have a final
showdown where she frees her dad from
his evil alter ego the snowpack is
reunited as a happy family for all of
five seconds before new cicada kills him
she's here to steal the science thing he
stole she's gonna use it to unleash a
metahuman toxin into the atmosphere that
will kill all the metahumans in the
world so she doesn't have to stab them
one by one while she and the gang have a
final fight cisco goes in there and
disarms it they finally got the dagger
gonna use the mirror gun to destroy it
but ralph dibny's like wait
don't being new to the team he's a
little behind on all this time travel
multiverse stuff what did you think we
meant when we said harry was from earth
too
that he is from earth also but it's
ralph who figures out thon's master plan
see the thing dampening his power in the
future
is cicada's dagger this whole time he's
been manipulating nora to go back there
so they can destroy it so the gang tries
a new approach and gives the meta human
cure to kid grace but as long as the
dagger exists it won't take hold because
of the shrapnel in her head so
eventually the flash has no choice he's
got to mirror gun the dagger boom evil
dagger destroyed removing evil grace
from the timeline
unfortunately this means the dagger's
erased from the future and just before
his execution thon's got his powers back
because they figured out his plan the
good guys run here to stop him and they
have a little speedster chase for a
while eventually thon's captured but
wait what's happening to nora
all the shenanigans has changed the
timeline too much this version of adult
nora
is being erased the only way to stop it
is to hide her in the negative speed
force so while barry runs off do that
the reverse flash eobard thawne is free
once again
the negative speed force is not a happy
place to be though so nora bails like
hey i'd rather be erased from the
timeline than be consumed by hate so
it's a super sad family hug mom dad i'm
so glad i got to know you as nora
disintegrates erased from the timeline
so as season 5 is wrapping up cisco's
been doing some serious soul-searching
he's decided he doesn't want to be vibe
anymore he takes the meta-human cure
excited to live his life from now on
without powers and with all these
changes to the timeline the crisis that
flash disappears in is coming sooner
yes next season it's crisis on infinite
earths and that's how season five comes
to an
end if you like this recap hit that
subscribe button for more of the best
recaps of tv and movies and if you love
this recap check out the join button and
support the channel as a member